In presence of: GY, VM, AM, PMR, AY, AK 
Adding Dr. Ravikiran Purama and Ms. Tania Modal - For handling Logistics/Infrastructure during Delhi WorkshopAgenda: Discussion of Content and assigning responsibilities for TIGR2ESS Bioinformatics workshop: R for Genomics and Data Mining 24th Feb to 1st March.

Main theme and Crops for the Workshop was discussed: Wheat (Triticacae) Genome bioinformatics and Indian Millets.

Responsibilities of Individuals:

1.     Amit Yadav: Installation of RSTUDIO, GETPAPERS, AMI for all delegates. PLUS Detailed Workshop Content Document.

2.     Ambarish Kumar: Regular updation of workshop content and Minutes of Meetings (Including This One) on GitHub

3.     Vinita: Preparing Workshop Tutorial/Exercise/Example on Wheat genome bioinformatics

4.     Ananya: Tutorial on Phytochemistry (Optional: AM has other things to do and cannot attend Feb workshop due to several reasons)

5.     Registration and Helpdesk will be setup and handled by Ms. Tanya and Dr. Ravi

6. Logistics/Itineraries of International Instructors: Ravi and Tania to coordinate with Venue and Instructors

7. GY: Overall Management and WiFi Options for all Six Days

9: PMR: Overall Coordination of Day 06 - TDM

PMR provided info on usability of Wheat as an Example/Tutorial (More to be discussed next meeting):

1.     Using command tigr2ees pm286$ getpapers –q “triricum” –n , there were  7889 open accessible results found

2.     Using command tigr2ees pm286$ getpapers –q “((triticum) AND (genome wide association))” –n , there were 1141 open accessible results found 

Other important suggestions

·      Amit to prepare detailed Workshop Content: Including Installation Instructions, Stepwise Tutorial, Detailed exercises, All (Pre-Run Pre-Tested) Results files.

·      Etherpad for future conversations, documentation, Online Question Bank. Ambarish to coordinate Etherpad or Alternatives

 

Draft Time Table for Workshop (More to Be Added with Time)

    Day 01: 
      24th Feb: 6pm to 9pm. Preconference meet up and Dinner (Ravi to coordinate transport from IHC to NIPGR)

              Venue: NIPGR. Main Things:   Round Table Introductions. Installations. Dinner.   

      25th Feb: Introduction to basics of Bioinformatics and R

      26th   Feb: Statistics, Graphics and Plotting in R. 

      27th Feb: Practical genomic analyses: Wheat Genome Bioinformatics. 

      28th Feb: Crop genetics and Marker development (Triticaceae Genome Data: Maize and Wheat)

     1st March: Text and Data Mining [ContentMine : GitHub, AMI]

                9am: Introduction of Module :  GY

                9:15am: Introduction by Speakers, Instructors and Volunteers

                9:30am: Lecture by PMR on TDM

                10am: Description of Contentmine Software by PMR

                10:30am: Tea Break

                11am - 1pm: Hands On Example and Demo Session - TBD

                1pm: Lunch Break

                2:30pm to 4pm: Group Formation among Delegates, followed by Exercise/Project Assignment to Each Group.

                4pm: Tea Break

                4:30pm - 5:30pm: Presentations by Each Group on Exercise Outcomes.

